http://www.reddit.com/r/europe/comments/2nutt8/does_the_european_union_suffer_from_a_democratic/

Not really, but I think that needs to be explained to the EU's citizens more effectively.
Let's just take one of the larger countries as a comparative example; the UK.
Many people complain that the European Parliament is the EU's only directly elected institution. However, the UK only has one directly elected national institution too; the House of Commons. Each institution is the Lower House of the Legislature. So, let's go through the comparative institutions:
Lower House: Commons/EP - Both directly elected (but the EP is elected by proportional representation, and thus more democratic).
Upper House: Lords/Council of the EU - The Lords are merely selected by the UK's Government. Their legitimacy is two steps removed (like judges), coming from the executive, which gets its legitimacy from the Lower House. The Council of the EU, on the other hand, is composed of Government Ministers, who get their legitimacy directly from their respective national Parliaments. Most of these members have also been directly elected at national level to their national Parliaments.
Head of Government: Prime Minister/President of the Commission - In the UK the Prime Minister and Government are elected by the Lower House. In the EU, the Commission and its President are elected by the Lower House. In some EU Member States, the UK included, the PM must come from the directly elected Lower House. This is not the case at EU-level.
Head of State: Queen/European Council (including its President) - In the UK, the Head of State is a monarch, and thus not democratically legitimate. The position is maintained by Parliament though, so you might see it as somewhat legitimated that way. In the EU, the Head of State is (unofficially) collectively the most powerful executive officer from each Member State. They are legitimated in different ways in their Member States, either via the Parliament, or directly from the People. They elect their President to represent them.
Judiciary: The judiciary is not a democratic institution in either the EU or the UK, nor should it be, for obvious reasons. Judges at each level can be removed from office for serious breaches.
