Q. Isn't wanting to stay in the single market but not in the EU
wanting to have one's cake and eat it?

(or similar):

"Basically, they want to be in the single market, but don't want to
comply with the rules for participating in the single market. All
those European regulations they hate so much are the things that make
the single market work - by harmonizing the regulations so people
selling things don't have 20-whatever different sets of possibly
contradictory national regulations to comply with. How exactly do they
think British goods will have access to the single market without
complying with the damn rules? Unicorns and rainbows."

A. The Single Market harmonises more than is necessary for free trade within
the EU.

This is for several reasons: the legislative process for Single Market
affairs is simply less onerous; unnecessary harmonisation allows lobbyists
to impose costs on their clients' competitors; politically, regulating
the EU's economy at French levels of intervention is necessary to obtain
consent from the French electorate for free trade within the EU: this
means increasing regulation in the UK, but decreasing it in, say, Greece.

The EU's treaties provide for the free movement of goods across EU internal
borders. They ban discrimination by country of origin, quantitative 
restrictions on trade, and "measures having the effect of quantitive 
restrictions", that is, cunning protectionist schemes disguised as
technical standards and so on. If a product is legal in one EU country,
then with few exceptions it's supposed to be legal to sell it in any
other EU country. Under such a regime, you don't *need* to specify
in great detail how products are made.

It is not necessary for the free movement of goods in this Single Market
for there to be detailed regulations on how many hours a week employees
can work on activities unconnected with exports to the EU. You don't need
to say that doctors on the NHS (whose services are obviously not exported
to Estonia) can only work 48 hours per week, in order to ensure the free
movement of British-made machine tools to Germany. Nor should Irish workers
making circuit boards for export to South Africa have to work a week
similar in length to that worked in France, yet this labour regulation is
part of the Single Market. You could repeal it tomorrow and the goods would
still move freely across the EU.

