http://www.reddit.com/r/europe/comments/1qpphg/americancanadian_here_how_does_the_eu_work/cdgaq1q?context=3

Also, if you think that the UK can be "kicked out" of the EU, you have
another think coming; it betokens ignorance or a fairly authoritarian
attitude: "you won't do what we want, so we'll break our treaty with
you"? Come off it.

Do you understand the term community? It's you get what you put
in. Keep asking for exemptions, you will eventually be exempted.

Outside, British consumers would have to pay import duty on all that
stuff, so they'll buy it from non-Europeans or buy less of it.  That
could be renegotiated and probably wouldn't happen. Simply nobody in
Europe would benefit from trade tariffs between the EU and the UK.
Considering that the economical aspect is not the only aspect to the
EU anymore it is necessary that the EU become more politically unified
so as to be able to make a fist against the other global powers. In
that respect an EU without the UK might be better able to mature. If
there is a rotten apple in a fruit-basket you remove it before it
causes the whole basket to rot.

http://www.reddit.com/r/europe/comments/23v97a/thoughts_on_the_eu/ch13rlp?context=3



"you won't do what we want, so we'll break our treaty with you"

So then, remind me exactly what the British eurosceptic position is
right now? You guys in the Eurozone want further monetary policy
integration? Well, we're not in the Eurozone, but we're going to
obstruct it anyway. You guys want open internal borders? We're not on
board. You guys want to defend one of the four founding principles of
the EEC/EU, the freedom of movement on people? We resent that. You
guys contribute large sums of money to the EU, and we get a rebate on
most of ours? Well, tough shit. We've all decided that we're going to
allow convicts to exercise their one of their fundamental EU freedoms
to vote? We're going to ignore that.

The UK can't get kicked out, and it won't. It will vote itself out,
which I'm perfectly fine with. But the rest of Europe has every right
to be severely annoyed with the UK not wishing to uphold its end of
their treaty obligations.

Also, if you think that the UK can be "kicked out" of the EU, you have
another think coming; it betokens ignorance or a fairly authoritarian
attitude: "you won't do what we want, so we'll break our treaty with
you"? Come off it.

Do you understand the term community? It's you get what you put
in. Keep asking for exemptions, you will eventually be exempted.

contextreportmark unreadreply
comment replyJuncker tells Cameron: I will renegotiate UK membership
from ChemicalPleasure via /r/europe/ sent 1 month ago
show parent

Outside, British consumers would have to pay import duty on all that
stuff, so they'll buy it from non-Europeans or buy less of it.

That could be renegotiated and probably wouldn't happen. Simply nobody
in Europe would benefit from trade tariffs between the EU and the UK.

Considering that the economical aspect is not the only aspect to the
EU anymore it is necessary that the EU become more politically unified
so as to be able to make a fist against the other global powers. In
that respect an EU without the UK might be better able to mature. If
there is a rotten apple in a fruit-basket you remove it before it
causes the whole basket to rot.

from Cyridius via /r/europe/ sent 1 month ago
show parent

Free trade agreements don't imply regulatory harmonisation. I don't
understand why you think they do.

But the European Economic Area does. You're asking for an Economic
Area of 31 states which is already extremely well established to
totally restructure so that you can totally disregard it's principals.

The whole point of Regulatory Harmonization within the EEA/EFTA area
is not only that all the consumers, who these products are going to,
are assured of the quality of the product, but it also ensures that
other country's industries cannot be unfairly undermined through
cheaper costs due to lack of regulation.

Our Union is the largest, wealthiest, most well organized on the
entire planet. What you're asking for undermines every single aspect
of that just so UKIP and wave a piece of paper at the end of the day
and tell everybody how special they are.

It's simply not going to happen. Being a member of the EEA/EFTA
automatically infers uniform regulation. You cannot have your cake and
eat it, too.

comment replyThoughts on the EU
from houad via /r/europe/ sent 1 month ago
show parent

Here is a case where the Court ruled that a challenged directive was
valid, with a caveat. You want the first sentence of the second
paragraph.  The second case I mentioned would also qualify in my
opinion since Spain is condemned for breaching its duty to enforce EU
law.


The problem is that 99% of the EU's acquis communautaire consists of
regulatory harmonisation, environmental provisions or restrictions on
certain forms of industrial policy aimed at providing the famous
"level playing field" or targeting behind the border trade
distortion. If you're outside the EU but want to stay in the common
market you still have to comply with almost all of it - you just don't
get a say in its formulation. People who claim that the UK could
negotiate a free trade agreement with the EU whilst chucking the
acquis are either liars or fantasists.

from styxwade via /r/ukpolitics/ sent 1 month ago

Yes and no. Turkey has an Association agreement with the EU as part of
its currently stalled accession process, and part of that is a customs
union and common external tariffs. However quite a lot is excluded
from the deal - agriculture, services, public procurement etc. More
importantly, the deal essentially allow the EU to more or less dictate
or at least excercise a veto over Turkey's external trade policy, and
Turkey is obliged to mirror any new EU laws pertaining to the customs
union. Turkey is also expected to gradually bring various domestic
policies such a s competition policy, transport policy, food
standards, social policy, actually pretty much everything into
compliance with the Acquis in "due course". In fact, Turkey is an
excellent example of what I'm talking about.

Actually I don't think that's right - EU directives have to be
implemented by the government but EU regulations are imported into UK
law via the European Community Act. So those would all go on leaving.


martin wolf aep